CS340

Relevant files:
* Grazioso_Salvare_Logo.png
* ProjectTwoDashboard.ipynb
* CS 340 README Template_UPDATED.docx
* AnimalShelter.py

How do you write programs that are maintainable, readable, and adaptable? Especially consider your work on the CRUD Python module from Project One, which you used to connect the dashboard widgets to the database in Project Two. What were the advantages of working in this way? How else could you use this CRUD Python module in the future?
Write code with modularized functions, meaningful variable and function names. Use an object-oriented approach with inheritance, encapsulation, and polymorphic behavior for code readability and reduction.
Write testable code, and catch all errors and write test conditions.

How do you approach a problem as a computer scientist? Consider how you approached the database or dashboard requirements that Grazioso Salvare requested. How did your approach to this project differ from previous assignments in other courses? What techniques or strategies would you use in the future to create databases to meet other client requests?
In choosing the correct database platform, it's important to take into consideration the clients needs. Is the data overall non-relational? In this case, MongoDb is excellent and provides
aggregate pipeline functionality to create filtered queries. In addition, having a good working knowledge of how the different components of the Model-View-Controller functionality.

We used DASH with Python for the view, we used Python with Pymongo for the controller, and we used Mongodb for the model database. In each case I had to read up on docs and examples to get all the components working together.

What do computer scientists do, and why does it matter? How would your work on this type of project help a company, like Grazioso Salvare, to do their work better?
By creating a fullstack application for the company, while also taking into account security, optimization and query speed, size of the database, we can create the fastest possible queries that meet the company's needs.
From the database, to the browser we can provide the company with way to aggregate massive Big Databases which can help achieve business goals.


CS330

Relevant files:
*   Design_decisions.docx
*   OpenGLSample_Final_project.zip

      In approaching the design of software, I have found that incremental updates to the codebase with constant tests is an effective method of development for 3D programming, as well
      as other types of programming. The use of a test-driven incremental approach allows any rollbacks to code changes that break compilation, allowing me
      to have a working copy of the codebase at any given time.
      I've also learned the mathematics and OpenGL pipeline in constructing primitive and 3D shapes from their equations, vertices, indices, and stride.
      
      In addition, I've learned how to send data directly to the GPU for shading and lighting effects via the vertex shader and fragment shader, allowing effective lighting and textured
      shading of a 3D scene.
      
      In following along with the Modern OpenGL 3D tutorial, I followed the approach of incremental programming, as well as abstracting functionality through the use of C++ methods
      and classes, allowing code reduction and efficiency in rendering each object's mesh, textures, and lighting. 
        
      This iterative development approach, coupled with Github can be applied to all future projects, allowing me to retain a working codebase at all times without losing work.
      New strategies I've learned include delving deep into the C++ documents and OpenGL tutorials for working examples with explained parameters and flags to incorporate into my code,
      through this iterative work and through much hardship in getting the examples working in my own code, I was able to complete my 3D scene. Given a bit more time I could
      perfect the lighting and shading on the scene, giving a more realistic effect. Some problems I ran into were the ordering of the code, for example if 
      I attempted to render the mesh without setting all the indices and strides correctly in order it would not appear or render incorrectly.

      Computational graphics and visualizations may be one of the most challenging courses I have taken to date, however the skills and perseverance it has taught me will
      guide me to success in my future educational and professional pathway by instilling the rigour and iterative development skills into my work.


CS305


Briefly summarize your client, Artemis Financial, and their software requirements. Who was the client? What issue did they want you to address?
Artemis

Points of consideration: This company deals directly with customers delivering highly sensitive data including financial plans for savings, retirement, investments, and insurance. Any of these plans may contain data such as social security, financial information, addresses, numbers that shouldn’t be leaked or able to be extracted. In accordance with OWASP, encryption is highly recommended for transmission of such sensitive information, by ensuring a secure protocol such as HTTPS is used to secure data communication between server and client; this prevents man in the middle attacks. Any server side code should be protected, no information should be stored or accessible from logs. Secure communication is a necessity to this company.

What did you do particularly well in identifying their software security vulnerabilities? Why is it important to code securely? What value does software security add to a company’s overall wellbeing?
1) Interpreted clients' needs allowed me to identify potential threats and attacks. Consideration of governmental restrictions was crucial. As per Iron Clas Java, using time-tested libraries provides a good defense and is preferable to a roll your own defense solution.
Learned how to identify false positives in security reports during static testing phase.


What about the process of working through the vulnerability assessment did you find challenging or helpful?
Determining which parts correlate to the project can be tricky. 
In the case of Artemis Financial, we are highlighting security enhancements in API / Secure API interactions as we have focused on creating a secure RESTful api using Spring boot and maven. 
We have focused on secure Cryptography / Encryption by adding a getHash that demonstrates our cipher string encrypt/decrypt functionality with AES.
We have focused on securing our Client / Server – By ensuring HTTPS (Hypertext Transfer Protocol Secure) encryption is used between client and server during transfer requests. Additionally by ensuring our self-signed certificate used for HTTP is valid, and the information in the certificate is correct to prevent man-in-the-middle attacks.
Finally, we focused on Encapsulation / Secure Data Structures by utilizing principle of least privilege to our accessor methods, and making our static instance data as private.


How did you approach the need to increase layers of security? What techniques or strategies would you use in the future to assess vulnerabilities and determine mitigation techniques?
I approach the need based on a general security consensus recommendations from Iron clad Java, Java secure coding guidelines, and OWASP recommendations.

How did you ensure the code and software application were functional and secure? After refactoring code, how did you check to see whether you introduced new vulnerabilities?
Regression testing and static analysis comes in handy to ensure refactored code is secure.

What resources, tools, or coding practices did you employ that you might find helpful in future assignments or tasks?
Static analysis testing, certificate generation, Spring boot server setup, secure coding guidelines.

Employers sometimes ask for examples of work that you have successfully completed to demonstrate your skills, knowledge, and experience. What from this particular assignment might you want to showcase to a future employer?

Specifically, implementing an encryption algorithm in a Spring Boot server securely was both a challenging and rewarding experience.

CS320

How can I ensure that my code, program, or software is functional and secure?
By utilizing a Test-Driven development workflow, learning CI/CD developmental workflow, and catching bugs as early in the SLDC as possible. Testing thoroughly and often, is the key to preventing costly regression bugs.

How do I interpret user needs and incorporate them into a program?
By communicating with customers or stakeholders regarding any ambiguities in the user requirements we can ensure test cases are written exactly as intended. After a phase of the system has been tested, it's important to interview again to ensure the intended behavior is in fact what they wanted.


How do I approach designing software?
Design and create tests for each function of the program, and code to pass these tests. Write new code on any failed test. Upload to a version controlling such as git, and run tests against any changes.




CS250

How do I interpret user needs and implement them into a program? How does creating “user stories” help with this?
Business users or product owners write out user stories, which are formal user feature requests. These requests could come from interviewing users or extrapolating needs from documents.
Creating these user stories is a fundamental first step toward achieving business value and creating working functionality for the sytem.


How do I approach developing programs? What agile processes do I hope to incorporate into my future development work?
I prefer to use an object-oriented style with a Test-Driven development approach. By utilizing JUnit tests and coding for edge cases and all possibilities I can reduce code failure near the end of the project's cycle.


What does it mean to be a good team member in software development?
To be a good team member means having good communication, having individual motivation, customer-centric views, attention to good design and self-reflection.


CS255

•	Briefly summarize the DriverPass project. Who was the client? What type of system did they want you to design?
The DriverPass client was owned by our client Liam. Their purpose is to provide students with online and offline access to online practice exams, and on-the-road training to help prepare them for driving tests. They wanted a system that was cross-platform, implementing GPS navigation and pickup features, and the ability to take practice exams online.

•	What did you do particularly well?
In gathering requirements, I extrapolated all of the necessary Performance requirements, and broke them into sub-category requirements as Speed, Scalability, Redundancy, and Recoverability; also including technologies listed with requirements such as CloudEndure from Amazon AWS for recoverability. In addition I detailed platform constraints accurately by clarifying our solution – certain serverless functions can be hosted as an AWS lambda, and REST API detailed technology such as PostgreSQL and Ruby on Rails server.

•	If you could choose one part of your work on these documents to revise, what would you pick? How would you improve it?

I would add clarifications on the Gantt chart, as well as additional security information. I might go over testing and maintenance of the system, and extrapolate additional technical requirements for the System design document template.

•	How did you interpret the user’s needs and implement them into your system design? Why is it so important to consider the user’s needs when designing?
I first gathered all the information needed from the DriverPass interview. Then by arranging this data into User stories, our team was able to convert the needs into business value and functionality; the user’s needs should be first and foremost in determining requirements as they will be the ones using the product the most in the end, paying attention to their needs and working side by side with customers and stakeholders ensures a solid user experience.


•	How do you approach designing software? What techniques or strategies would you use in the future to analyze and design a system?
I would incorporate my learnings of the AGILE methodology in certain projects, Waterfall for others, and I would use the SDLC to help gather requirements based on user stories, plan a roadmap by creating data flow diagrams, and Object UML charts, develop these stories into functionality using a Test-Driven Development approach, and deploy and maintain the product with a strategic integration plan. 
